README.md, before:

# sikulix
Automated sikulix test scripts. 

Since Canvas updates their code every three weeks, the MatematikkMOOC-design risk breaking up at the same intervalls. 
To be able to detect a breakage, we have made automated test scripts with Sikulix. They work by comparing images from a previous 
GUI with images from the current GUI. Since the comparison is done pixelwise, screen resolution, web browser, computer type and os version can come into account. I have used

- Screen resolution 2560x1440
- Firefox 54.0 (64-bits)
- MacBook Pro (Retina, 13-tommers, late 2013), Graphics Intel Iris 1536 MB
- OSX El Capitan 10.11.6 (15G1510)

To run the tests: 

1. Import the test course (found in this directory) into Canvas and publish it.
2. Add a student to the course and go to the course page as that student, using Firefox as web browser.
3. Install http://sikulix.com/ 
4. Add the path to where you installed sikulix to your .bash_profile by adding a line like this:

   export PATH=~/sikulix:$PATH

5. cd into the directory where the tc1.sikuli ...tcn.sikuli  test scripts are.
6. Run the command ../runsikulix tc1 tc2 ... tcn
7. Observe the magic and keep an eye on the text output from the scripts whether any tests fail.

## Troubleshooting
In the example below, sikulix reports a mismatch between the snapshot taken in Firefox and the image 1498213743797.png. 

```Bash
$ runsikulix -r tc1
running SikuliX: /Applications/SikuliX.app/Contents/Java/sikulix.jar -r tc1
.===
TC1
Test scroll event list.
Prerequisite: TC0
[log] App.open [0:Firefox]
[error] script [ /Users/erlendthune/github/sikulix/tc1.sikuli ] stopped with error in line 12
[error] FindFailed ( 1498213743797.png: (27x20) in R[1579,408 348x357]@S(0) E:Y, T:3,0 )
```

When a test fails like this, Firefox remains open where the test failed, and you can open the image sikulix used in the comparison in 
the tc1.sikuli directory:

```Bash
$ cd tc1.sikuli
$ ls
1498213743797.png	tc1.html
1498213773508.png	tc1.py
$ edit 1498213743797.png
```

Comparing the image with Firefox should reveal what is wrong. If the difference is subtle it might be an idea to use an image comparison program.

Commit message:

Add link to test course and java download page.

README.md, after:

# sikulix
Automated sikulix test scripts. 

Since Canvas updates their code every three weeks, the MatematikkMOOC-design risk breaking up at the same intervalls. 
To be able to detect a breakage, we have made automated test scripts with Sikulix. They work by comparing images from a previous 
GUI with images from the current GUI. Since the comparison is done pixelwise, screen resolution, web browser, computer type and os version can come into account. I have used

- Screen resolution 2560x1440
- Firefox 54.0 (64-bits)
- MacBook Pro (Retina, 13-tommers, late 2013), Graphics Intel Iris 1536 MB
- OSX El Capitan 10.11.6 (15G1510)

To run the tests: 

1. Import the [test course](https://github.com/matematikk-mooc/imscc/blob/master/Matematikk1/videreutdanning/modul-1-tall-og-tallforstaelse-export.imscc) into Canvas and publish it.
2. Add a student to the course and go to the course page as that student, using Firefox as web browser.
3. Install http://sikulix.com/ Note that on Mac you will have to [download the latest Java JDK manually](https://www.java.com/en/download/), as the version included by Apple is too old. 
Note that installing Java JRE is not enough, since the Java paths does not seem to be updated correctly when installing that package.
4. Add the path to where you installed sikulix to your .bash_profile by adding a line like this:

   export PATH=~/sikulix:$PATH

5. cd into the directory where the tc1.sikuli ...tcn.sikuli  test scripts are.
6. Run the command ../runsikulix tc1 tc2 ... tcn
7. Observe the magic and keep an eye on the text output from the scripts whether any tests fail.

## Troubleshooting
In the example below, sikulix reports a mismatch between the snapshot taken in Firefox and the image 1498213743797.png. 

```Bash
$ runsikulix -r tc1
running SikuliX: /Applications/SikuliX.app/Contents/Java/sikulix.jar -r tc1
.===
TC1
Test scroll event list.
Prerequisite: TC0
[log] App.open [0:Firefox]
[error] script [ /Users/erlendthune/github/sikulix/tc1.sikuli ] stopped with error in line 12
[error] FindFailed ( 1498213743797.png: (27x20) in R[1579,408 348x357]@S(0) E:Y, T:3,0 )
```

When a test fails like this, Firefox remains open where the test failed, and you can open the image sikulix used in the comparison in 
the tc1.sikuli directory:

```Bash
$ cd tc1.sikuli
$ ls
1498213743797.png	tc1.html
1498213773508.png	tc1.py
$ edit 1498213743797.png
```

Comparing the image with Firefox should reveal what is wrong. If the difference is subtle it might be an idea to use an image comparison program.
